src/content/projects/iconio.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Icon.io'
date: '2023-10-28'
featured: true
role: 'Full-Stack Developer'
summary: 'A web-based multiplayer platform offering a variety of puzzle games'
thumbnailUrl: 'https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-thumbnail.png?updatedAt=1723238598008'
techStack:
  [
    'react',
    'nodejs',
    'typescript',
    'socketio',
    'figma',
    'antdesign',
    'css3',
    'aws',
    'pm2',
  ]
link:
  {
    github: 'https://github.com/ryangandev/icon.io',
    live: 'https://icon.ryiscrispy.com/',
  }
---

## Overview

Icon.io is a dynamic web-based, online multiplayer gaming platform developed using React, Node.js TypeScript and it utilizes Socket.IO to provide real-time user interactivity.

It currently hosts the multiplayer game Draw & Guess, providing a canvas for you and your friends to showcase creativity and artistic skills while enjoying a fun gaming experience.

Plans are underway to introduce more games soon, such as the classic Tic-Tac-Toe and multiplayer Minesweeper.

## Features

- **Comprehensive Room Management** - Offers a robust room management system, enabling users to create, join, and leave rooms with ease, while also supporting public and private room configurations
- **Real-Time Interactivity** - Facilitates real-time chat and lobby updates, dynamically reflecting player activity and room information
- **Mature Gameplay Mechanism** - Ensures a well-structured game loop for seamless turn-taking logic and a scoring mechanism based on correct guesses in every Draw and Guess game session
- **Synchronized Canvas Broadcasting** - Provides a dynamic whiteboard component with various colors and brush sizes, while broadcasting the drawing in real-time to all players in the room

## Responsibilities

- Designed an intuitive and user-friendly UI/UX for the application using **Figma**, and translated the design into a functional frontend using **React** and **TypeScript** with **Ant Design** components

- Engineered the backend using **Node.js**, with robust **socket event emitters and listeners** to support **room management**, as well as the **gameplay logic** and architecture

- Implemented the **whiteboard** component using the **Canvas API** and **Socket.IO** to ensure synchronized broadcasting of drawings in real-time

- Configured and deployed the application on **AWS EC2** and utilized the process manager **PM2** to ensure continuous uptime and availability

## Screenshots

![Screenshot 1](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-landing.png?updatedAt=1723238599851)
![Screenshot 2](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-draw-and-guess-lobby.png?updatedAt=1723238598835)
![Screenshot 3](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-draw-and-guess-word-select.png?updatedAt=1723238599547)
![Screenshot 4](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-draw-and-guess-draw.png?updatedAt=1723238597689)
![Screenshot 5](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-draw-and-guess-guessed.png?updatedAt=1723238598371)
![Screenshot 6](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-draw-and-guess-review.png?updatedAt=1723238599172)

Commit message:

Updated projects detail
icon.io and player 2 helpdesk

src/content/projects/iconio.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Icon.io'
date: '2023-10-28'
featured: true
role: 'Full-Stack Developer'
summary: 'A web-based multiplayer gaming platform'
thumbnailUrl: 'https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-thumbnail.png?updatedAt=1723238598008'
techStack:
  [
    'react',
    'nodejs',
    'typescript',
    'socketio',
    'figma',
    'antdesign',
    'css3',
    'aws',
    'pm2',
  ]
link:
  {
    github: 'https://github.com/ryangandev/icon.io',
    live: 'https://icon.ryiscrispy.com/',
  }
---

## Overview

_Icon.io_ is a web-based multiplayer gaming platform that brings friends together through engaging puzzle games. Players can quickly setup a profile and jump into a game in just seconds. The platform is designed to offer a relaxing environment where players can enjoy solving creative challenges while having fun.

## Features

- **Comprehensive Room Management** - Users can easily create, join, or leave rooms, with support for both private and public room settings
- **Real-Time Updates** - Real-time features for live lobby updates, room info, chat messages and latest game activities
- **Interactive Whiteboard** - Provides a whiteboard canvas with a color palette and brush options for players to create and broadcast drawings syncronously
- **Complete Gameplay Mechanics** - Each game follows a well-structured loop with turn-taking logic and a scoring system.

## Technologies Used

- **Figma, React, Ant Design, CSS** - UI/UX design and frontend development
- **Node.js, Express**- Backend development
- **Socket.io** - Real-time communication
- **AWS EC2, PM2** - Deployment

## Screenshots

![Screenshot 1](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-landing.png?updatedAt=1723238599851)
![Screenshot 2](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-draw-and-guess-lobby.png?updatedAt=1723238598835)
![Screenshot 3](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-draw-and-guess-word-select.png?updatedAt=1723238599547)
![Screenshot 4](https://ik.imagekit.io/ryangan/Project%20Screenshots/iconio/icon.io-draw-and-guess-draw.png?updatedAt=1723238597689)
